Without warning, our faith could suddenly be tested by how we react in a violent encounter.
Yes, our faith may be tested as Enoch's was.
Ungodliness and violence were commonplace before the flood,
and the scriptures clearly indicate how people reacted.
We are told that the faithful man Enoch chose to walk with God.
So, when he was threatened, he looked to Jehovah for security.
On the other hand, Lamek, a descendant of the murderer Cain,
opted to provide his own security.
This led to killing a man and supposed self-defense.
Now, Enoch and the killer Lamek both lived in a violent world,
but their violence, reaction, plans were totally different.
As we descend deeper into the last days, people will become more desperate
and violence will only escalate.
In the following dramatization, let's see how reacting to violence
could suddenly become a personal test of faith in Jehovah.
My son barely escaped the gangs again.
We're the only ones without a gun want to keep a gun for protection.
But how else can I protect my family?
In today's violent society, even in the perceived safest of neighborhoods,
we could have a similar experience.
If so, how can we imitate Enoch's faith?
For one thing, he recognized a simple but fundamental truth.
Jehovah hates violence.
So for us to walk with God as Enoch did, we must reject violence as an option.
What can help us to do that?
Don't harbor retaliatory thoughts.
Violent thoughts can lead to violent actions without thinking about the consequences.
Learn to recognize situations that could harm us,
then act to avoid the danger.
That's the counsel given at Proverbs 22 and verse 3.
The shrewd one sees the danger and conceals himself,
but the inexperience keeps right on going and suffer the consequences.
So we're encouraged to conceal ourselves if we sense danger.
Think ahead, look around, be perceptive, and avoid situations
that may become violent.
Avoid violent entertainment.
Why?
It frequently portrays a violent response when a character's safety is threatened.
All sorts of objects or weapons are depicted as strategies to kill or overpower the opponents.
While Christians may take reasonable steps to ensure their personal security,
they do so within the framework of Bible principles.
Consider these three scriptures as you make decisions about your family's security needs.
David prayed at Psalm 51-14,
save me from blood guilt.
He never wanted to be guilty of murder.
Preparing a response that includes the use of weapons could result in taking life.
If a Christian takes reasonable steps to defend himself or his property,
he would do everything in his power to avoid taking a human life and become blood guilty.
In Matthew 2652, Jesus warned that those who draw the sword shall die by the sword.
It's well established that when weapons are displayed,
situations usually escalate with tragic outcomes.
Planning to use a deadly weapon could effectively dismiss Jehovah's spirit from our presence.
To pull away from Jehovah is the last thing we want to do in a dangerous situation.
A third is found at Ecclesiastes 918, where it simply says,
wisdom is better than weapons.
In other words, being armed cannot match wisdom.
The prudent course is to trust in Jehovah not weapons.
God's word wisely teaches us to daily show respect, consideration, and genuine kindness to others.
This approach of pursuing peace will often minimize otherwise potential conflicts.
Isn't it true? Violence struggles often begin with a heated exchange of words.
So calmness can often diffuse anger and deflect violent conflicts.
Here's something else to consider.
The Bible book of Jude says that Enoch prophesied to his opposers.
His means that he was a preacher, being known as a courageous witness of Jehovah,
and showing compassion for those to whom we preach is always our best protection.
How was Enoch rewarded for putting his faith in Jehovah?
Note the answer at Hebrews 11 and verse 5.
By faith, Enoch was transferred so as not to see death,
and he was nowhere to be found because God had transferred him,
before he was transferred, he received the witness that he had pleased God well.
Enoch was rewarded with the knowledge that he had pleased God well,
in some manner, in a very clear way he was given assurance of Jehovah's approval.
How comforting to know that if we face dangerous encounters with no good way out, like Enoch,
we too can handle that test of faith in a way that will please God well.
In the following dramatization, note how our brother imitates Enoch's example.
Hebrews 11, verse 1.
Faith is the assured expectation of what is hope for.
I do have faith in God's promises, but if a gun is what I need to protect my family,
won't Jehovah understand?
No, I couldn't do that. I'm not the first to face a violent world.
Hebrews 11, verse 5.
Receive the witness that he had pleased God well.
Enoch lived among extreme violence, but he walked with God.
I can imitate his faith.
Did you notice this brother's violence reaction plan?
His faith in God's promises helped him to look to Jehovah for security instead of a gun.
He realized he was not the first to face a violent world and made the firm decision to imitate the faith of Enoch.
So now, prior to a violent confrontation, what can we do to be sure our reaction plan will be pleasing to Jehovah?
Imitate Enoch in these four ways.
Build our faith in confidence in Jehovah now before we are tested in a violent situation.
Reject violent thoughts. Don't allow the violent movies or violent video games that are sponsored by the devil to train your children or yourselves on how to react in a violent confrontation.
Reject the idea that you will prepare yourselves with weapons and fearlessly keep preaching as Enoch did.
In this way, even if we find ourselves in a violent situation, our violence reaction plan will allow us to imitate Enoch and please God well.
Brother John Echron, a helper to the coordinators committee will now consider the next talk of this symposium.
Imitate the faithful, not the faithless, Noah, not his neighbors.